README.md, before:

# dotfiles-nixos

My personal nixos configuration.

## installation

Boot into NixOS installer.

Close the installer.

Open a terminal and run the following:

```sh
sudo su
nix-shell -p git
git clone https://github.com/m3l6h/nixos.git
cd nixos
ls /dev/disk/by-id # Identify the disk to install NixOS on
nix --experimental-features "nix-command flakes" run github:nix-community/disko -- --mode disko ./disko.nix --arg device '"/dev/disk/by-id/<disk from previous step>"'
cd ..
mkdir /mnt/etc
mv nixos /mnt/etc/
nixos-install --root /mnt --flake /mnt/etc/nixos#nixos
reboot
```

## [modules](modules)

Breakdown of the included modules.

### [home-manager](modules/home-manager) - Home Manager modules

- [games](/modules/home-manager/games) - Central module for all games
  - [minecraft](/modules/home-manager/games/minecraft.nix) - Installs minecraft via prismlauncher
    - games.minecraft.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [hyprland](modules/home-manager/hyprland) - Hyprland submodule
  - hyprland.enable `boolean` - Enables the module and its submodules
  - [eww](modules/home-manager/hyprland/eww) - Eww configuration and scripts
  - [rofi](modules/home-manager/hyprland/rofi) - Configures rofi
  - [binds](modules/home-manager/hyprland/binds.nix) - Sets hyprland keybinds
  - [eww](modules/home-manager/hyprland/eww.nix) - Configues eww
  - [hypridle](modules/home-manager/hyprland/hypridle.nix) - Configures hypridle
  - [hyprlock](modules/home-manager/hyprland/hyprlock.nix) - Configures hyprlock
  - [hyprshot](modules/home-manager/hyprland/hyprshot.nix) - Configures hyprshot
  - [layer-rules](modules/home-manager/hyprland/layer-rules.nix) - Configures layerrules
  - [monitors](modules/home-manager/hyprland/monitors.nix) - Configures monitors
  - [wallpaper](modules/home-manager/hyprland/wallpaper.nix) - Configures wallpapers
    - wallpaper.mpvpaper.enable `boolean` - Enable mpvpaper video wallpaper
    - wallpaper.swww.enable `boolean` - Enable swww image wallpaper
  - [workspaces](modules/home-manager/hyprland/workspaces.nix) - Configures workspaces
- [scripts](modules/home-manager/scripts) - Scripts submodule
  - [conditional-lock](modules/home-manager/scripts/conditional-lock.nix) - When called will lock the system as long as ~/.local/state/no-lock is not present
    - scripts.conditional-lock.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [conditional-suspend](modules/home-manager/scripts/conditional-suspend.nix) - When called will suspend the system as long as ~/.local/state/no-suspend is not present
    - scripts.conditional-suspend.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [fs-diff](modules/home-manager/scripts/fs-diff.nix) - Use to find files needing to be persisted
    - Will automatically be enabled if `neovim.enable` is true
  - [home-manager-wrapper](modules/home-manager/scripts/home-manager-wrapper.nix) - Wrapper around home-manager to suspend lock/sleep during switch
    - Always enabled
  - [nix-rebuild-wrapper](modules/home-manager/scripts/nix-rebuild-wrapper.nix) - Wrapper around nix rebuild to suspend lock/sleep during switch
    - Always enabled
  - [persist](modules/home-manager/scripts/persist.nix) - Util to persist files/directories
    - Will automatically be enabled if `neovim.enable` is true
  - [toggle-mute](modules/home-manager/scripts/toggle-mute.nix) - Util to toggle-mute in playerctl
    - Will automatically be enabled if `utils.playerctl.enable` is true
  - [wallpaper-haven](modules/home-manager/scripts/wallpaper-haven.nix) - Sets a random wallpaper from wallpaper haven
    - scripts.wallpaper-haven.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
    - configure [api options](https://wallhaven.cc/help/api) with `~/.config/.wallhaven.ini`
- [services](modules/home-manager/services) - Systemd services submodule
  - [clip-mngr](modules/home-manager/services/clip-mngr.nix) - Systemd clipboard manager
    - services.clip-mngr.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [software](modules/home-manager/software) - Software submodule
  - [bazecor](modules/home-manager/software/bazecor.nix) - Graphical configurator for Dygma products
    - software.bazecor.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [digikam](modules/home-manager/software/digikam) - Image management software
    - software.digikam.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [firefox](modules/home-manager/software/firefox.nix) - Enables firefox browser
    - software.firefox.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [krita](modules/home-manager/software/krita.nix) - Enables krita
    - software.krita.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [obs](modules/home-manager/software/obs.nix) - Enables obs studio
    - software.obs.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [vivaldi](modules/home-manager/software/vivaldi.nix) - Enables vivaldi browser
    - software.vivaldi.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [toolchains](modules/home-manager/toolchains) - Toolchains submodule
  - [c-cpp](modules/home-manager/toolchains/c-cpp.nix) - Install c/c++ toolchain
    - toolchains.c-cpp.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [go](modules/home-manager/toolchains/go.nix) - Install go toolchain
    - toolchains.go.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [markdown](modules/home-manager/toolchains/markdown.nix) - Install markdown toolchain
    - toolchains.markdown.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [nix](modules/home-manager/toolchains/nix.nix) - Install nix toolchain
    - toolchains.nix.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [node](modules/home-manager/toolchains/node.nix) - Install node toolchain
    - toolchains.node.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [python](modules/home-manager/toolchains/python.nix) - Install python toolchain
    - toolchains.python.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [utils](modules/home-manager/utils) - CLI utils submodule
  - [bat](modules/home-manager/utils/bat.nix) - Install bat
    - utils.bat.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [chafa](modules/home-manager/utils/chafa.nix) - Install chafa
    - utils.chafa.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [expect](modules/home-manager/utils/expect.nix) - Install expect tools (e.g. unbuffer)
    - utils.expect.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [ffmpeg](modules/home-manager/utils/ffmpeg.nix) - Install ffmpeg
    - utils.ffmpeg.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [file](modules/home-manager/utils/file.nix) - Install file
    - utils.file.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [fzf](modules/home-manager/utils/fzf.nix) - Install fzf
    - utils.fzf.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [gh](modules/home-manager/utils/gh.nix) - Install gh
    - utils.gh.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [ghostscript](modules/home-manager/utils/ghostscript.nix) - Install ghostscript
    - utils.ghostscript.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [glxinfo](modules/home-manager/utils/glxinfo.nix) - Install glxinfo
    - utils.glxinfo.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [image-magick](modules/home-manager/utils/image-magick.nix) - Install the image-magick suite
    - utils.image-magick.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [iw](modules/home-manager/utils/iw.nix) - Install iw
    - utils.iw.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [jq](modules/home-manager/utils/jq.nix) - Install jq
    - utils.jq.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [killall](modules/home-manager/utils/killall.nix) - Install killall
    - utils.killall.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [lsof](modules/home-manager/utils/lsof.nix) - Install lsof
    - utils.lsof.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [mermaid-cli](modules/home-manager/utils/mermaid-cli.nix) - Install mermaid-cli
    - utils.mermaid-cli.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [ripgrep](modules/home-manager/utils/ripgrep.nix) - Install ripgrep
    - utils.ripgrep.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [parted](modules/home-manager/utils/parted.nix) - Install parted
    - utils.parted.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [playerctl](modules/home-manager/utils/playerctl.nix) - Install playerctl
    - utils.playerctl.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [socat](modules/home-manager/utils/socat.nix) - Install socat
    - utils.socat.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [sqlite](modules/home-manager/utils/sqlite.nix) - Install sqlite
    - utils.sqlite.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [tealdeer](modules/home-manager/utils/tealdeer.nix) - Install tealdeer
    - utils.tealdeer.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [tectonic](modules/home-manager/utils/tectonic.nix) - Install tectonic
    - utils.tectonic.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [unp](modules/home-manager/utils/unp.nix) - Install unp & its requisite tools
    - utils.unp.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [vulkan](modules/home-manager/utils/vulkan.nix) - Install vulkan-tools
    - utils.vulkan.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [wget](modules/home-manager/utils/wget.nix) - Install wget
    - utils.wget.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [wl-clipboard](modules/home-manager/utils/wl-clipboard.nix) - Install wl-clipboard
    - utils.wl-clipboard.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [aliases](modules/home-manager/aliases.nix) - Define shell aliases
- [gpg](modules/home-manager/gpg.nix) - Enables gpg keys
  - gpg.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [impermanence](modules/home-manager/impermanence.nix) - Enables impermanence at user level
  - impermanence.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [neovim](modules/home-manager/neovim.nix) - Enables my custom neovim flake
  - neovim.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [terminal](modules/home-manager/terminal.nix) - Configure terminal
  - terminal.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - terminal.emulator `string` - Set the terminal emulator to use
- [tmux](modules/home-manager/tmux/default.nix) - Configure tmux
  - tmux.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [sessionx](modules/home-manager/tmux/sessionx.nix) - Configure sessionx
    - tmux.sessionx.enable `boolean` - Enables sessionx
  - [tmuxinator](modules/home-manager/tmux/tmuxinator.nix) - Configure tmuxinator
    - tmux.tmuxinator.enable `boolean` - Enables tmuxinator
- [user-dirs](modules/home-manager/user-dirs.nix) - Custom user dirs
  - user-dirs.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [zsh](modules/home-manager/zsh/default.nix) - Configure zsh
  - zsh.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - zsh.zoxide.enable `boolean` - Enables zoxide
  - [zsh-vi-mode](modules/home-manager/zsh/zsh-vi-mode.nix) - Configures a better vi mode in zsh
    - zsh.vi-mode.enable `boolean` - Enables zsh-vi-mode

### [nixos](modules/nixos) - Nixos modules

- [services](modules/nixos/services) - Systemd services submodule
  - [clean-old-generations](modules/nixos/services/clean-old-generations.nix) - Systemd service to clean old nixos generations
    - services.clean-old-generations.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [hyprland](modules/nixos/hyprland.nix) - Enables hyprland window manager
  - hyprland.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [neovim](modules/nixos/impermanence.nix) - Enables impermanence at system level
  - neovim.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [nix-ld](modules/nixos/nix-ld.nix) - Enables nix-ld for executing arbitrary binaries
  - nix-ld.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [nixos-rebuild-ng](modules/nixos/nixos-rebuild-ng.nix) - Enables nixos-rebuild-ng as a replacement to nixos-rebuild
  - nixos-rebuild-ng.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [nvidia](modules/nixos/nvidia.nix) - Enables nvidia configurations
  - nvidia.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [partition-manager](modules/nixos/partition-manager.nix) - Install partition-manager
  - partition-manager.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [sddm](modules/nixos/sddm.nix) - Enables sddm window manager
  - sddm.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [users](modules/nixos/users.nix) - Create default user
  - users.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - users.zsh.enable `boolean` - Enables zsh as the default shell (must be done at the system level)
- [vcs](modules/nixos/vcs.nix) - Install git
  - vcs.enable `boolean` - Enables the module

## cheatsheet

NixOS cheatsheet.

To list generations:

```sh
nixos-rebuild list-generations
```

### troubleshooting

To clean the store:

```sh
nix-delete-store
```

To verify/repair the store:

```sh
sudo nix-store --verify --check-contents --repair
```

## development

This project is broken up into NixOS and home-manager configuration. The NixOS
configuration lives in
[configs/nixos/configuration.nix](configs/nixos/configuration.nix)
and [modules/nixos](modules/nixos). While the home-manager configuration lives
in [homes/m3l6h/home.nix](homes/m3l6h/home.nix) and
[modules/home-manager](modules/home-manager).

Although the configuration has been separated, the home-manager side of the
house ultimately is built as a part of the NixOS config. The advantage of
separating it is that during _development_ the home-manager configuration can
be built by itself, but **to persist any changes after reboot, the NixOS
configuration will have to be built.**

### commands

To build the NixOS configuration, run

```sh
nxs
```

To build the home-manager configuration, run

```sh
hms
```

To update the system, run

```sh
nix flake update
nxs
```

To update a single input, run

```sh
nix flake update <input>
nxs
```

## credits

Non-exhaustive list of sources I referenced/learned from while building this.

In no particular order.

### people

- [Vimjoyer](https://www.youtube.com/@vimjoyer)

### other people's configs

- [Liassica/nixos-config](https://codeberg.org/Liassica/nixos-config)
- [Misterio77/nix-config](https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-config)

### articles

- [Impermanent NixOS: on a VM + tmpfs root + flakes + LUKS | Will Bush](https://willbush.dev/blog/impermanent-nixos/)

Commit message:

doc: add boot media instructions to installation

README.md, after:

# dotfiles-nixos

My personal nixos configuration.

## installation

The following provides an outline of the exact steps needed to install this system.

### boot media

Download [rufus](https://rufus.ie/en).

Download [the NixOS graphical ISO image](https://nixos.org/download).

Insert USB drive to create ISO on. ⚠️**IT WILL BE WIPED**⚠️

Open Rufus.

Select the USB under `Device`.

Select the NixOS ISO under `Boot selection`.

Click `START` to format the USB. ⚠️**THIS WILL DELETE _EVERYTHING_ ON THE USB**⚠️

Shutdown the computer when Rufus is finished.

### installer

Boot into NixOS installer (might have to press a button to boot into BIOS first, then select USB from boot options).

Close the installer.

Open a terminal and run the following:

```sh
sudo su
nix-shell -p git
git clone https://github.com/m3l6h/dotfiles-nixos.git nixos
cd nixos
ls /dev/disk/by-id # Identify the disk to install NixOS on
nix --experimental-features "nix-command flakes" run github:nix-community/disko -- --mode disko ./disko.nix --arg device '"/dev/disk/by-id/<disk from previous step>"'
cd ..
mkdir /mnt/etc
mv nixos /mnt/etc/
nixos-install --root /mnt --flake /mnt/etc/nixos#nixos
reboot
```

## [modules](modules)

Breakdown of the included modules.

### [home-manager](modules/home-manager) - Home Manager modules

- [games](/modules/home-manager/games) - Central module for all games
  - [minecraft](/modules/home-manager/games/minecraft.nix) - Installs minecraft via prismlauncher
    - games.minecraft.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [hyprland](modules/home-manager/hyprland) - Hyprland submodule
  - hyprland.enable `boolean` - Enables the module and its submodules
  - [eww](modules/home-manager/hyprland/eww) - Eww configuration and scripts
  - [rofi](modules/home-manager/hyprland/rofi) - Configures rofi
  - [binds](modules/home-manager/hyprland/binds.nix) - Sets hyprland keybinds
  - [eww](modules/home-manager/hyprland/eww.nix) - Configues eww
  - [hypridle](modules/home-manager/hyprland/hypridle.nix) - Configures hypridle
  - [hyprlock](modules/home-manager/hyprland/hyprlock.nix) - Configures hyprlock
  - [hyprshot](modules/home-manager/hyprland/hyprshot.nix) - Configures hyprshot
  - [layer-rules](modules/home-manager/hyprland/layer-rules.nix) - Configures layerrules
  - [monitors](modules/home-manager/hyprland/monitors.nix) - Configures monitors
  - [wallpaper](modules/home-manager/hyprland/wallpaper.nix) - Configures wallpapers
    - wallpaper.mpvpaper.enable `boolean` - Enable mpvpaper video wallpaper
    - wallpaper.swww.enable `boolean` - Enable swww image wallpaper
  - [workspaces](modules/home-manager/hyprland/workspaces.nix) - Configures workspaces
- [scripts](modules/home-manager/scripts) - Scripts submodule
  - [conditional-lock](modules/home-manager/scripts/conditional-lock.nix) - When called will lock the system as long as ~/.local/state/no-lock is not present
    - scripts.conditional-lock.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [conditional-suspend](modules/home-manager/scripts/conditional-suspend.nix) - When called will suspend the system as long as ~/.local/state/no-suspend is not present
    - scripts.conditional-suspend.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [fs-diff](modules/home-manager/scripts/fs-diff.nix) - Use to find files needing to be persisted
    - Will automatically be enabled if `neovim.enable` is true
  - [home-manager-wrapper](modules/home-manager/scripts/home-manager-wrapper.nix) - Wrapper around home-manager to suspend lock/sleep during switch
    - Always enabled
  - [nix-rebuild-wrapper](modules/home-manager/scripts/nix-rebuild-wrapper.nix) - Wrapper around nix rebuild to suspend lock/sleep during switch
    - Always enabled
  - [persist](modules/home-manager/scripts/persist.nix) - Util to persist files/directories
    - Will automatically be enabled if `neovim.enable` is true
  - [toggle-mute](modules/home-manager/scripts/toggle-mute.nix) - Util to toggle-mute in playerctl
    - Will automatically be enabled if `utils.playerctl.enable` is true
  - [wallpaper-haven](modules/home-manager/scripts/wallpaper-haven.nix) - Sets a random wallpaper from wallpaper haven
    - scripts.wallpaper-haven.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
    - configure [api options](https://wallhaven.cc/help/api) with `~/.config/.wallhaven.ini`
- [services](modules/home-manager/services) - Systemd services submodule
  - [clip-mngr](modules/home-manager/services/clip-mngr.nix) - Systemd clipboard manager
    - services.clip-mngr.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [software](modules/home-manager/software) - Software submodule
  - [bazecor](modules/home-manager/software/bazecor.nix) - Graphical configurator for Dygma products
    - software.bazecor.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [digikam](modules/home-manager/software/digikam) - Image management software
    - software.digikam.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [firefox](modules/home-manager/software/firefox.nix) - Enables firefox browser
    - software.firefox.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [krita](modules/home-manager/software/krita.nix) - Enables krita
    - software.krita.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [obs](modules/home-manager/software/obs.nix) - Enables obs studio
    - software.obs.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [vivaldi](modules/home-manager/software/vivaldi.nix) - Enables vivaldi browser
    - software.vivaldi.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [toolchains](modules/home-manager/toolchains) - Toolchains submodule
  - [c-cpp](modules/home-manager/toolchains/c-cpp.nix) - Install c/c++ toolchain
    - toolchains.c-cpp.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [go](modules/home-manager/toolchains/go.nix) - Install go toolchain
    - toolchains.go.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [markdown](modules/home-manager/toolchains/markdown.nix) - Install markdown toolchain
    - toolchains.markdown.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [nix](modules/home-manager/toolchains/nix.nix) - Install nix toolchain
    - toolchains.nix.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [node](modules/home-manager/toolchains/node.nix) - Install node toolchain
    - toolchains.node.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [python](modules/home-manager/toolchains/python.nix) - Install python toolchain
    - toolchains.python.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [utils](modules/home-manager/utils) - CLI utils submodule
  - [bat](modules/home-manager/utils/bat.nix) - Install bat
    - utils.bat.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [chafa](modules/home-manager/utils/chafa.nix) - Install chafa
    - utils.chafa.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [expect](modules/home-manager/utils/expect.nix) - Install expect tools (e.g. unbuffer)
    - utils.expect.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [ffmpeg](modules/home-manager/utils/ffmpeg.nix) - Install ffmpeg
    - utils.ffmpeg.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [file](modules/home-manager/utils/file.nix) - Install file
    - utils.file.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [fzf](modules/home-manager/utils/fzf.nix) - Install fzf
    - utils.fzf.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [gh](modules/home-manager/utils/gh.nix) - Install gh
    - utils.gh.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [ghostscript](modules/home-manager/utils/ghostscript.nix) - Install ghostscript
    - utils.ghostscript.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [glxinfo](modules/home-manager/utils/glxinfo.nix) - Install glxinfo
    - utils.glxinfo.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [image-magick](modules/home-manager/utils/image-magick.nix) - Install the image-magick suite
    - utils.image-magick.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [iw](modules/home-manager/utils/iw.nix) - Install iw
    - utils.iw.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [jq](modules/home-manager/utils/jq.nix) - Install jq
    - utils.jq.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [killall](modules/home-manager/utils/killall.nix) - Install killall
    - utils.killall.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [lsof](modules/home-manager/utils/lsof.nix) - Install lsof
    - utils.lsof.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [mermaid-cli](modules/home-manager/utils/mermaid-cli.nix) - Install mermaid-cli
    - utils.mermaid-cli.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [ripgrep](modules/home-manager/utils/ripgrep.nix) - Install ripgrep
    - utils.ripgrep.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [parted](modules/home-manager/utils/parted.nix) - Install parted
    - utils.parted.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [playerctl](modules/home-manager/utils/playerctl.nix) - Install playerctl
    - utils.playerctl.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [socat](modules/home-manager/utils/socat.nix) - Install socat
    - utils.socat.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [sqlite](modules/home-manager/utils/sqlite.nix) - Install sqlite
    - utils.sqlite.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [tealdeer](modules/home-manager/utils/tealdeer.nix) - Install tealdeer
    - utils.tealdeer.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [tectonic](modules/home-manager/utils/tectonic.nix) - Install tectonic
    - utils.tectonic.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [unp](modules/home-manager/utils/unp.nix) - Install unp & its requisite tools
    - utils.unp.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [vulkan](modules/home-manager/utils/vulkan.nix) - Install vulkan-tools
    - utils.vulkan.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [wget](modules/home-manager/utils/wget.nix) - Install wget
    - utils.wget.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [wl-clipboard](modules/home-manager/utils/wl-clipboard.nix) - Install wl-clipboard
    - utils.wl-clipboard.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [aliases](modules/home-manager/aliases.nix) - Define shell aliases
- [gpg](modules/home-manager/gpg.nix) - Enables gpg keys
  - gpg.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [impermanence](modules/home-manager/impermanence.nix) - Enables impermanence at user level
  - impermanence.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [neovim](modules/home-manager/neovim.nix) - Enables my custom neovim flake
  - neovim.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [terminal](modules/home-manager/terminal.nix) - Configure terminal
  - terminal.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - terminal.emulator `string` - Set the terminal emulator to use
- [tmux](modules/home-manager/tmux/default.nix) - Configure tmux
  - tmux.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - [sessionx](modules/home-manager/tmux/sessionx.nix) - Configure sessionx
    - tmux.sessionx.enable `boolean` - Enables sessionx
  - [tmuxinator](modules/home-manager/tmux/tmuxinator.nix) - Configure tmuxinator
    - tmux.tmuxinator.enable `boolean` - Enables tmuxinator
- [user-dirs](modules/home-manager/user-dirs.nix) - Custom user dirs
  - user-dirs.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [zsh](modules/home-manager/zsh/default.nix) - Configure zsh
  - zsh.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - zsh.zoxide.enable `boolean` - Enables zoxide
  - [zsh-vi-mode](modules/home-manager/zsh/zsh-vi-mode.nix) - Configures a better vi mode in zsh
    - zsh.vi-mode.enable `boolean` - Enables zsh-vi-mode

### [nixos](modules/nixos) - Nixos modules

- [services](modules/nixos/services) - Systemd services submodule
  - [clean-old-generations](modules/nixos/services/clean-old-generations.nix) - Systemd service to clean old nixos generations
    - services.clean-old-generations.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [hyprland](modules/nixos/hyprland.nix) - Enables hyprland window manager
  - hyprland.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [neovim](modules/nixos/impermanence.nix) - Enables impermanence at system level
  - neovim.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [nix-ld](modules/nixos/nix-ld.nix) - Enables nix-ld for executing arbitrary binaries
  - nix-ld.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [nixos-rebuild-ng](modules/nixos/nixos-rebuild-ng.nix) - Enables nixos-rebuild-ng as a replacement to nixos-rebuild
  - nixos-rebuild-ng.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [nvidia](modules/nixos/nvidia.nix) - Enables nvidia configurations
  - nvidia.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [partition-manager](modules/nixos/partition-manager.nix) - Install partition-manager
  - partition-manager.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [sddm](modules/nixos/sddm.nix) - Enables sddm window manager
  - sddm.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
- [users](modules/nixos/users.nix) - Create default user
  - users.enable `boolean` - Enables the module
  - users.zsh.enable `boolean` - Enables zsh as the default shell (must be done at the system level)
- [vcs](modules/nixos/vcs.nix) - Install git
  - vcs.enable `boolean` - Enables the module

## cheatsheet

NixOS cheatsheet.

To list generations:

```sh
nixos-rebuild list-generations
```

### troubleshooting

To clean the store:

```sh
nix-delete-store
```

To verify/repair the store:

```sh
sudo nix-store --verify --check-contents --repair
```

## development

This project is broken up into NixOS and home-manager configuration. The NixOS
configuration lives in
[configs/nixos/configuration.nix](configs/nixos/configuration.nix)
and [modules/nixos](modules/nixos). While the home-manager configuration lives
in [homes/m3l6h/home.nix](homes/m3l6h/home.nix) and
[modules/home-manager](modules/home-manager).

Although the configuration has been separated, the home-manager side of the
house ultimately is built as a part of the NixOS config. The advantage of
separating it is that during _development_ the home-manager configuration can
be built by itself, but **to persist any changes after reboot, the NixOS
configuration will have to be built.**

### commands

To build the NixOS configuration, run

```sh
nxs
```

To build the home-manager configuration, run

```sh
hms
```

To update the system, run

```sh
nix flake update
nxs
```

To update a single input, run

```sh
nix flake update <input>
nxs
```

## credits

Non-exhaustive list of sources I referenced/learned from while building this.

In no particular order.

### people

- [Vimjoyer](https://www.youtube.com/@vimjoyer)

### other people's configs

- [Liassica/nixos-config](https://codeberg.org/Liassica/nixos-config)
- [Misterio77/nix-config](https://github.com/Misterio77/nix-config)

### articles

- [Impermanent NixOS: on a VM + tmpfs root + flakes + LUKS | Will Bush](https://willbush.dev/blog/impermanent-nixos/)
